[WIP] feat: Support pending SpokePool upgrades (#611)
UMAprotocol/UMIPs: UMIPs/umip-179.md

## Data Types
Across v3 defines the following data types:

### V3RelayData
The `V3RelayData` type underpins the transfer of funds in or out of a SpokePool instance. `V3RelayData` is defined as follows:
| Name | Type | Description |
| :--- |:---- | :---------- |
| depositor | bytes32 | The address that made the deposit on the origin chain. |
| recipient | bytes32 | The recipient address on the destination chain. |
| exclusiveRelayer | bytes32 | The optional exclusive relayer who can fill the deposit before the exclusivity deadline. |
| inputToken | bytes32 | The token that is deposited on the origin chain by the depositor. |
| outputToken | bytes32 | The token that is received on the destination chain by the recipient. |
| inputAmount | uint256 | The amount of inputToken that is deposited by the depositor. |
| outputAmount | uint256 | The amount of outputToken that is received by the recipient. |
| originChainId | uint256 | The chain ID of the origin SpokePool. |

> | depositId | uint256 | The ID identifying a deposit on the origin chain. |

Reviewer: Should this umip state that all ids are unique below uint32.max - 1? Or is that an implementation detail you think?

Author: I went back and forth on this a bit, and I also wondered whether we should specify that pre-fills must have a depositId > 2³²-1. So far I haven't found any concrete need mention it. I'm probably inclined to leave it unspecified unless we find a real need for it. wdyt?

Reviewer: I think it could be a useful constraint to force this into the protocol. If we specify that all pre-fills have a deposit Id > some number, then the validator's logic for searching for deposits for pre-fills can be constrained to only look for deposits with finite fill deadlines (because the only way to send an infinite fill deadline deposit is to use the legacy deposit, which doesn't support deterministic deposit ID's)

Author: So does this mean that whenever we have a fill with depositId > 2³²-1, the proposer/disputer would just skip it entirely, and would instead wait for the deposit to arrive?

My expectation is that most deposit/fill pairs would still continue to occur within the same bundle, even when the deposit was made via `unsafeDeposit()`, so in general I think we should still be able to match most deposits and fills out of the log buffer that the proposer/disputer populates on startup.

Reviewer: > My expectation is that most deposit/fill pairs would still continue to occur within the same bundle, even when the deposit was made via unsafeDeposit()

Agreed with you here. I think my suggestion here is not needed.

| fillDeadline | uint32 | The Unix timestamp on the destination chain after which the deposit can no longer be filled. |
| exclusivityDeadline | uint32 | The optional Unix timestamp on the destination chain after which any relayer can fill the deposit. |
| message | bytes | Optional data that is forwarded to the recipient as part of a relay. |

#### Note

> - `V3RelayData` specifies `bytes32` representation for addresses (`depositor`, `recipient`, ...) in order to interface with non-EVM chains. EVM addressed supplied shall be promoted to type `bytes32` with the upper bytes zeroed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `V3RelayData` specifies `bytes32` representation for addresses (`depositor`, `recipient`, ...) in order to interface with non-EVM chains. EVM addressed supplied shall be promoted to type `bytes32` with the upper 12 bytes zeroed. 
```

The `updatedRecipient` field is normally set to the `recipient` from the corresponding `V3FundsDeposited` event. In the event that the relayer completes the fill with an accompanying `RequestedSpeedUpV3Deposit` event, `updatedRecipient` will be set to the address approved by the update.

## Events
Across V3 defines the following events:
- FundsDeposited
- V3FundsDeposited
- RequestedSpeedUpDeposit
- RequestedSpeedUpV3Deposit
- FilledRelay
- FilledV3Relay
- RequestedSlowFill
- RequestedV3SlowFill
- ClaimedRelayerRefund

### Event Deprecation
The following events are marked for future deprecation. Deprecation will be announced in a future update to this specification.
- V3FundsDeposited
- RequestedSpeedUpV3Deposit
- FilledV3Relay
- RequestedV3SlowFill

### FundsDeposited, V3FundsDeposited
The `FundsDeposited` event emits the unique `V3RelayData` for an individual deposit. No additional fields are defined. 

> The `V3FundsDeposited` event emits the unique `V3RelayDataLegacy` for an individual deposit. No additional fields are defined.

Reviewer 3: Should you highlight that this will stop being emitted once all spoke pools are upgraded?

Author: I'm in two minds about it. On the one hand, it's a contract-level implementation detail that doesn't really concern the protocol. At the same time, if we bake in some transition concept then we could arguably start stripping the legacy support out of the bots once we complete the migration.

We would still need to circle back to this UMIP and make a cleanup though, so I think the question of whether to bake this in or not is subject to how quickly we expect to remove the legacy support from the UMIP.

Reviewer 2: I think we say that they _are_ deprecated. The simplest way to avoid a separate vote once the upgrade happens is to set a specific block timestamp in this UMIP after which it is assumed that they will no longer be emitted, so they can be ignored by implementations.

Thoughts?

Author: I added some migration information here - wdyt? https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/commit/f74a4ab60c8d6099cf09861fe8fa6981ea055cd7

nb. I constrained removal to earliest 7 days after migration just to allow the dust to settle.

Consumers of these events should append the `originChainId` in order to avoid unintentionally mixing events from different chains.

Note:

> - The `FundsDeposited` and `V3FundsDeposited` `outputToken` field is not required to be a known HubPool `l1Token`. In-protocol arbitrary token swaps are technically supported by Across v3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `FundsDeposited` and `V3FundsDeposited` `outputToken` field is not required to be a known HubPool `l1Token`. In-protocol arbitrary token swaps are technically supported by Across v3.
```
```suggestion
- The `FundsDeposited` and `V3FundsDeposited` `outputToken` field is not required to be a known HubPool `l1Token`. In-protocol arbitrary token swaps are supported by Across v3.
```

Think we can be even more explicit here

Author: Yep - fair call :+1:

- The address identified by `exclusiveRelayer` has exclusive right to complete the relay on the destination chain until `exclusivityDeadline` has elapsed.
- If `exclusivityDeadline` is set to a past timestamp, any address is eligible to fill the relay.

> - Any deposit that remains unfilled after the specified `fillDeadline` shall be refunded to the `depositor` address via the origin SpokePool in a subsequent settlement bundle.

Reviewer: What about if the deposit is a duplicate relay hash? Which is now possible with non uniqueness of deposit ids

Author: Just to tease this one out into a scenario: `unsafeDeposit()` is called, producing a `relayDataHash` collision on the destination SpokePool. The proposer concludes that the deposit was filled by some previous, unrelated fill. The proposer then identifies that fill and credits the relayer with the repayment, meaning the relayer gets paid twice and the depositor can never receive their refund. Is this the same scenario you're thinking of?

In this specific case, I think there is some risk that the depositor (or relayer, or more broadly the "facilitator" of the order flow) takes when they call `unsafeDeposit()` (this is basically why it's called `unsafe`). It is however possible for them to check the `FillStatus` on the destination chain in advance of selecting the salt for their `depositId`, so they can avoid the scenario where they collide with a very old fill. I think this then reduces the risk to a collision occurring within a much shorter period of time - i.e. seconds of minutes.

This might not be the only scenario, and my reasoning might be flawed on this. This scenario alone also indicates that we need to add some guidance in our docs for how integrators should select their salt when generating pre-fill deposits for depositors to sign. wdyt?

Author: One additional and very simple check that could protect against this - the proposer and disputer could be required to verify both the relayDataHash and a subset of the fields - i.e. to verify that some or all of the following fields are an exact match. That would protect against relayDataHash collisions, and would allow the proposer to refund the deposit on the origin chain:
- `depositor`
- `recipient`
- `inputToken`
- `inputAmount`
- `outputAmount`
- `fillDeadline`

Reviewer: > The proposer then identifies that fill and credits the relayer with the repayment, meaning the relayer gets paid twice and the depositor can never receive their refund. Is this the same scenario you're thinking of?

No, in this case the relayer could only fill once because the relay hash is the same for both deposits. The deposit pays twice and only gets filled once. The relayer gets refunded for one their one fill

But overall I think the function is aptly named "unsafe" and depositors who do this should be aware they might lose their deposit.

Author: > No, in this case the relayer could only fill once because the relay hash is the same for both deposits. The deposit pays twice and only gets filled once. The relayer gets refunded for one their one fill

If the proposer/disputer resolves solely on RelayData hash then I'd still expect it to match a new deposit (via `unsafeDeposit()`) with a very old fill that was made for whatever other deposit collided. So in that case, it'd conclude that the old fill was valid and would then enqueue a relayer refund, and would not refund the depositor.

So the argument is not that the fill would occur twice, but that the proposer/disputer would issue two relayer repayments for the same fill. Does that make sense?

Reviewer 2: > One additional and very simple check that could protect against this - the proposer and disputer could be required to verify both the relayDataHash and a subset of the fields

If the relayHash matches, these would have to match, right? Otherwise, we've found a keccak hash collision, no? One important thing to also note is that it's pretty hard to spoof collisions without controlling the calling user's wallet. The depositor _and_ msg.sender (in addition to nonce) must match to create a collision.

> The proposer then identifies that fill and credits the relayer with the repayment, meaning the relayer gets paid twice and the depositor can never receive their refund. Is this the same scenario you're thinking of?

Do we want this behavior to be universal? Or if the deposits are within some range of one another, we do a refund (since the duplicate is detectable in that case)?

If I'm understanding correctly, the primary motivation for the double relayer payment is that we don't have a good way to go back and find a deposit from long ago, so we can't distinguish between a prefill and double deposit. But I also think the most likely failure mode is a double transaction submission, where the deposits are very close together, so if we could protect users in that case, I think this sharp edge wouldn't be too painful for users.

Thoughts?

Reviewer: Currently the proposer will not reward a refund for any duplicate expired deposits -- only the first would get refunded: https://github.com/across-protocol/sdk/pull/838

Author: > If the relayHash matches, these would have to match, right? Otherwise, we've found a keccak hash collision, no? One important thing to also note is that it's pretty hard to spoof collisions without controlling the calling user's wallet. The depositor _and_ msg.sender (in addition to nonce) must match to create a collision.

Agreed! The risk of a depositor reusing their salt (`depositNonce`) is much more realistic. It's a lot easier to create collisions now that deposit permits `fillDeadline` to be in the past.

> If I'm understanding correctly, the primary motivation for the double relayer payment is that we don't have a good way to go back and find a deposit from long ago, so we can't distinguish between a prefill and double deposit. But I also think the most likely failure mode is a double transaction submission, where the deposits are very close together, so if we could protect users in that case, I think this sharp edge wouldn't be too painful for users.
> 
> Thoughts?

I still feel allergic to the possibility of a double repayment, even if it can be confined to rare cases. It's very counter-intuitive and is likely to be quite tricky to investigate, if it ever happens. I'm much more in favour of finding solutions where we can eliminate the possibility. It's unclear whether we can achieve that given other constraints though.

Reviewer 2: Looks like this isn't resolved AFAICT. The UMIP suggests that deposits are refunded if not filled, but I don't see a clarification about what "filled" really means here (i.e. a duplicate deposits are allowed and can all be considered filled by the same fill and thus result in loss of funds).

Author: Just to round this out, I think we settled on the maximally simple definition of a fill - tldr, a deposit is `filled` when the deposit FillStatus on the destination chain is in state `Filled`.

| updatedMessage | bytes | The new message to be supplied to the recipient. |
| depositorSignature | bytes | A signature by the depositor authorizing the above updated fields. |

#### Note
- Relayers may optionally append the updated request from a `RequestedSpeedUpDeposit` or `RequestedSpeedUpV3Deposit` event when filling a relay, but have no obligation to use the updated request.

### RequestedSlowFill, RequestedV3SlowFill
The `RequestedSlowFill` event emits an `V3RelayData` instance.
The `RequestedV3SlowFill` event emits an `V3RelayDataLegacy` instance.

#### Note
- These events are emitted on the destination chain and signal to proposers that a slow fill has been requested for a specific deposit.

> - `RequestedV3SlowFill` events cannot be emitted until the `exclusivityDeadline` timestamp has elapsed on the destination chain.

Reviewer 2: Why does this need to be in the UMIP. Isn't this enforced by the contracts?

I guess this is really a broader question about these notes: are we intending for them to be informational in nature or enforced by the UMIP (i.e. a RequestedSlowFill event emitted before `exclusivityDeadline` would be ignored or otherwise considered invalid)? If informational, we should make that clear. "The contracts are expected to enforce ...".

Author: Yeah; this is a hangover from the v2 -> v3 upgrade and was intended for informational purposes.  It seemed relevant at the time; it's probably fine to drop it now.

```suggestion
```

- `RequestedV3SlowFill` events cannot be emitted once the `fillDeadline` timestamp has elapsed on the destination chain.

### FilledRelay, FilledV3Relay

The `FilledRelay` event extends the `V3RelayData` type by applying the following adjustments:
| Name | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :---------- |
| message | omitted | This field is omitted from the `FilledRelay` event in favour of the `messageHash` field. |

> | messageHash | bytes32 | The keccak256 hash of the `V3RelayData` message field. This field is included in place of the `V3RelayData` message field. |

Reviewer 4: this is `bytes32(0)` for empty message bytes.

Author: Updated: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/commit/c4005eec6ed63f6ccce484d1c31ac28cb7f4c0b2

| depositorSignature | bytes | A signature by the depositor authorizing the above updated fields. |

Note:
- Relayers may optionally append the updated request from a `RequestedSpeedUpDeposit` or `RequestedSpeedUpV3Deposit` event when filling a relay, but have no obligation to use the updated request.

### RequestedSlowFill, RequestedV3SlowFill
The `RequestedSlowFill` event emits an `V3RelayData` instance.
The `RequestedV3SlowFill` event emits an `V3RelayDataLegacy` instance.

These events are emitted on the destination chain and signal to proposers that a slow fill has been requested for a specific deposit.

Note:
- `RequestedV3SlowFill` events cannot be emitted until the `exclusivityDeadline` timestamp has elapsed on the destination chain.
- `RequestedV3SlowFill` events cannot be emitted once the `fillDeadline` timestamp has elapsed on the destination chain.

### FilledRelay, FilledV3Relay

The `FilledRelay` event extends the `V3RelayData` type by applying the following adjustments:
| Name | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :---------- |
| message | omitted | This field is omitted from the `FilledRelay` event in favour of the `messageHash` field. |

> | messageHash | bytes32 | The keccak256 hash of the `V3RelayData` message field. This field is included in place of the `V3RelayData` message field. See also [Computing RelayData hashes](#computing-relaydata-hashes). |

Reviewer 3: Is the "See also" necessary here? Since we don't use the message hash anymore for RelayData hashes.

Author: True - it should instead be a description of how to hash the message field.

Author: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/611/commits/e6e4980e69bfc28bca69e90d7a1a1482c382d4d4

  DISABLED_CHAINS by proposing from and to the previous bundle end block.

### Computing RelayData Hashes
A `RelayData` hash is computed as the `keccak256` hash over the ABI-encoded representation of the arguments `relayData`, `destinationChainId`, where:
- `relayData` is of type `V3RelayData` or `V3RelayDataLegacy`.
- `destinationChainId` is of type `uint256`.

#### Note
- This method produces the identical hashes for `V3RelayData` and `V3RelayDataLegacy` for the same input data due to `address` promotion to `bytes32` prior to hashing.

### Computing Relayer Repayments & Depositor Refunds
For the purpose of computing relayer repayments, the following procedures are completed:
- Finding Valid Fills
- Finding Valid Pre-Fills
- Finding Expired Deposits

#### Note
- Depositor refunds are issued via the Relayer Repayment workflow.

#### Validating Fills
Each of the `Fills` emitted within the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:
1. The `Fill` event `FillType` field is not set to `SlowFill`, AND

> 2. The component `RelayData` maps exactly to a corresponding `Deposit` event emitted on the relevant `originChainId`. This may be determined by comparing the hashes of the two objects, AND

Reviewer 4: note that fill and slow fill events don't have full message bytes anymore, so one first needs to hash the message (or use `bytes32(0)`) from the deposit event to match hashes. Or is it expected to inspect fill/slow fill calldata where original message bytes would be still present?

Author: @Reinis-FRP I've updated the description to make it more obvious - is this OK or does it need more? https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/commit/c4005eec6ed63f6ccce484d1c31ac28cb7f4c0b2

  DISABLED_CHAINS by proposing from and to the previous bundle end block.

### Computing RelayData Hashes
#### V3RelayData
The `V3RelayData` hash is computed as the `keccak256` hash over the ABI-encoded representation of the arguments `relayData`, `destinationChainId`, where:
- `relayData` is of type `V3RelayData`.
- `destinationChainId` is of type `uint256`.

#### V3RelayDataLegacy
The `V3RelayDataLegacy` hash is computed as the `keccak256` hash over the ABI-encoded representation of the arguments `relayData`, `destinationChainId`, where:
- `relayData` is of type `V3RelayDataLegacy`
- `destinationChainId` is of type `uint256`.

### Computing Relayer Repayments & Depositor Refunds
For the purpose of computing relayer repayments, the following procedures are completed:
- Finding Valid Fills
- Finding Valid Pre-Fills
- Finding Expired Deposits

#### Note
- Depositor refunds are issued via the Relayer Repayment workflow.

#### Validating Fills
Each of the `Fills` emitted within the target block range on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:

> 1. The `Fill` event `FillType` field is not set to `SlowFill`, AND

Reviewer: All SlowFill fills are valid by the way, not sure if that's stated elsewhere but this bullet point would lead me to believe otherwise

Author: Yeah; correct that all slow fills are valid. The intention of this text is to identify that the proposer/disputer should not bother validating fills where the `FillType` is `SlowFill`, because the aim is really to identify fills for repayment. I'll add some context to indicate that it's for repayment only.

2. The component `RelayData` maps exactly to a corresponding `Deposit` event emitted on the relevant `originChainId`. This may be determined by comparing the hashes of the two objects, AND

> 3. The corresponding `Deposit` event occurred within or before the target block range on the origin chain SpokePool.

Reviewer: Does this have to be true? What is the "target" block range? Could we remove this bullet point and the. Use this section to also validate pre fills?

I see it as the responsibility of the validator/proposer to use a long enough lookback to validate all pre fills and normal fills. 

This lookback is finite for non legacy deposits with non infinite fill deadlines

Author: > What is the "target" block range?

It's the block range for the current proposal. I'll rename to `Bundle Block Range` and will link to the section on `Identifying Bundle Block Ranges`.

> Does this have to be true? Could we remove this bullet point and the. Use this section to also validate pre fills?

It's a new constraint imposed by the infinite lookback on pre-fills. The scenario that we must protect against is:
In the current proposal:
- Fill is made within the current bundle block range.
- Deposit somehow lands slightly outside of the current bundle block range.
- Proposer matches the fill with the deposit and issues a repayment to the relayer.

In the subsequent proposal:
- Deposit appears within the current bundle block range.
- No fill is identified because it fell into the previous bundle block range.
- Proposer thinks this was a legitimate pre-fill and issues another repayment for it.

The proposed solution is to only permit the initial repayment for deposits that appear within the current bundle block range. So in the scenario above, the initial repayment would be suppressed, and it would only occur in the subsequent bundle. This avoids double repayment to the relayer, but imposes a marginal repayment delay on that single repayment.

Reviewer: This scenario likely won't exist today:

> Deposit appears within the current bundle block range.
> No fill is identified because it fell into the previous bundle block range.
> Proposer thinks this was a legitimate pre-fill and issues another repayment for it.

Because, on step 2, fills are still evaluated that are older than the current bundle block range, they're just not added to the refund leaf. The only change we might need to make is to ensure that the fill lookback is sufficiently long. 

Today we make sure that the lookback for all chains is longer than bundleStartBlock - MAX_FILL_DEADLINE (converted to blocks on origin chain) to make sure we see all expired deposits for a bundle. This SHOULD cover most pre-fills also but we probably should be more explicit. We could make a rule perhaps like: you cannot send a prefill more than MAX_FILL_DEADLINE time earlier than the deposit otherwise you might not get refunded

#### Validating Fills
Each of the `Fills` emitted within the target block range on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:
1. The `Fill` event `FillType` field is not set to `SlowFill`,
2. The component `RelayData` maps exactly to a corresponding `Deposit` event emitted on the relevant `originChainId`. This may be determined by comparing the hashes of the two objects.

If the `Deposit` event specifies `outputToken` 0x0 (i.e. the Zero Address), the equivalent SpokePool token on the destination chain shall be substituted in. For the purpose of determining `RelayData` equivalency, the updated/substituted `outputToken` shall be used in place of 0x0.

#### Validating Pre-fills
For each of the `Deposits` emitted within the target block range where no corresponding `Fill` is identified on the destination chain, identify the valid `Fill` according to the following criteria:
1. Verify that the destination chain `FillStatus` for the `Deposit` `RelayData` is `Filled` as at the destination chain end block number for the proposal.
2. Resolve the corresponding `Fill` on the destination chain.

#### Note

> - No specific method is prescribed for resolving the fill on the destination chain. An `eth_getLogs` request can facilitate this, and if required, the target block range could be narrowed by a binary search over the `FillStatus` field. This is left as an implementation decision.

Author: I added this section to describe how to identify pre-fills. This is a fairly abstract description; it arises out of the realisation that an arbitrarily-old fill with a non-deterministic depositId can still be identified via a binary search, which should remove the need to artificially limit the fill->deposit time delta. This should be naively fine OK as long as SpokePool addresses and token mappings don't change. We might consider adding a note to explicitly warn relayers of these risks.

fwiw, the SDK already has an implementation of the necessary logic for a binary search here: https://github.com/across-protocol/sdk/blob/db244fbaec15dc049452cd104ca7bec5856ad3da/src/utils/SpokeUtils.ts#L328 This implementation came out of the resilience work that was done, because RPC provider jank can also cause a deposit without a corresponding fill event.

There is a consideration about the load imposed on proposers and disputers from a binary search, which can only be done per-deposit. I think this is the optimal strategy for now, where only a small number of deposits are expected to fall outside of the proposer/disputer lookback window. The strategy could be improved if the ratio of pre-fills started to become significant. One candidate for optimising this could be to just increase the block range when querying for fills. Since _most_ missing fills are probably only hours old, this strategy could be used quite effectively.

If the load from increasing the getLogs range did ultimately produce a scalability problem then I think we'd ultimately look to bound the fill -> deposit delta by some multiple of the `fillDeadline` specified in the deposit. But I think that should be reserved for a future UMIP change (and may not even be necessary).

- A "soft pause" of a chain is permitted in the event that the proposer cannot safely increment the bundle block range, or has no events to propose beyond the previous bundle block range. In this case, the proposer may repeat the procedure for
  DISABLED_CHAINS by proposing from and to the previous bundle end block.

### Computing RelayData Hashes
#### V3RelayData

> The `V3RelayData` hash is computed as the `keccak256` hash over the ABI-encoded representation of the arguments `relayData`, `destinationChainId`, where:

Reviewer 4: Note that the upcoming spoke deployments will have modified `_getV3RelayHash` so that `relayData.message` is converted to `bytes32` (either `bytes32(0)` for empy message or `keccak256` hash of message bytes).

Author: @Reinis-FRP Good catch; I'd overlooked that. We did also bump into an issue around the upgrade that could permit double-fills due to the change in the way `RelayData` hashes are produced. We've floated the idea of reverting the change to the way `RelayData` is hashed on the EVM side (see [PR](https://github.com/across-protocol/contracts/pull/867/files) by @bmzig). This is a point we'll need to align on; I'll leave this comment open so we circle back and fix it once we agree on how to proceed.

Reviewer 2: I think we've confirmed we will keep the old hash.

Author: Updated: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/commit/9758785973fb737e6546d5adb6bac956fdbb551b

Note:
- The LP fee is typically referenced as a multiplier of the `Deposit` `inputAmount`, named `realizedLpFeePct` elsewhere in this document.

### Computing Bundle LP Fees
The bundle LP fee for a [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) on a SpokePool and token pair shall be determined by summing the applicable LP fees for each of the following validated events:
- `FilledRelay`.
- `FilledV3Relay`.

### Computing Relayer Repayments
For a validated `Deposit` event, the relayer repayment amount shall be computed as follows:
- `(inputAmount * (1 - realizedLpFeePct)) / 1e18`, where `realizedLpFeePct` is computed over the set of HubPool `l1Token`, `originChainId` and `repaymentChainId` at the HubPool block number corresponding to the relevant `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`.
- The applicable rate model shall be sourced from the AcrossConfigStore contract for the relevant `l1Token`.

The applied `repaymentChainId` shall be determined as follows:
- When the `originChainId` is a `Lite chain` as at the `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`: `originChainId`, ELSE:

> - The `repaymentChainId` as specified in the `Fill`.

Author: This bumps up against an [existing PR](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/602) that I've had open for a while, which aims to be explicit about how to handle an invalid repaymentChainId for a given `inputToken` (i.e. what do we do when there's no `PoolRebalanceRoute` to `repaymentChainId` for a given `l1Token`).

The current format here should make it easy enough for us to be explicit about what happens when no `PoolRebalanceRoute` is available. In that case I assume we revert to repayment on `destinationChainId`.

Author: Initial wording added here: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/611/commits/fde6509690a9932a746a0b9b943b0f98a7cbb5b6

- `FilledRelay`.
- `FilledV3Relay`.

### Computing Relayer Repayments
For a validated `Deposit` event, the relayer repayment amount shall be computed as follows:
- `(inputAmount * (1 - realizedLpFeePct)) / 1e18`, where `realizedLpFeePct` is computed over the set of HubPool `l1Token`, `originChainId` and `repaymentChainId` at the HubPool block number corresponding to the relevant `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`.
- The applicable rate model shall be sourced from the AcrossConfigStore contract for the relevant `l1Token`.

The applied `repaymentChainId` shall be determined as follows:
- When the `originChainId` is a `Lite chain` as at the `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`: `originChainId`, ELSE
- When no `PoolRebalanceRoute` exists for the `repaymentToken` on the `Fill` `repaymentChainId`: `destinationChainId`, ELSE
- The `repaymentChainId` as specified in the `Fill`.

The applied repayment address shall be determined as follows:
- When the `Fill` `relayer` address is valid for the applied `repaymentChainId`: `relayer`, ELSE
- The `Fill` `msg.sender` address.

#### Note
- Examples of an invalid `relayer` address include:
    - An SVM address on an EVM chain.

### Computing Deposit Refunds

> For an expired `Deposit` event, the depositor refund amount shall be computed as `inputAmount` units of `inputToken`.

Reviewer 3: I think you should also say that if you set the `depositor` field to an invalid EVM address, (i.e. a `bytes32` address), then you won't be refunded if you aren't filled.

Author: @mrice32 @nicholaspai This is something that we can enforce at the contract level, and not enforcing it there leads to this risk that the depositor's funds get locked in the protocol. It costs a bit more gas to do this but gives a lot more safety to the depositor. Given that we already need to modify the SpokePool for the RelayData hash, would we consider also enforcing that `depositor` is a valid EVM address?

For the purpose of computing relayer repayments, the following procedures are completed:
- Finding Valid Fills
- Finding Valid Pre-Fills
- Finding Expired Deposits

#### Note
- Depositor refunds are issued via the Relayer Repayment workflow.

#### Validating Fills
Each of the `Fills` emitted within the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:
1. The `Fill` event `FillType` field is not set to `SlowFill`, AND
2. The component `RelayData` maps exactly to a corresponding `Deposit` event emitted on the relevant `originChainId`. This may be determined by comparing the hashes of the two objects, AND
3. The corresponding `Deposit` event occurred within or before the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) on the origin chain SpokePool.

If the `Deposit` event specifies `outputToken` 0x0 (i.e. the Zero Address), the equivalent SpokePool token on the destination chain shall be substituted in. For the purpose of determining `RelayData` equivalency, the updated/substituted `outputToken` shall be used in place of 0x0.

#### Validating Pre-fills

> For each of the `Deposits` emitted within the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) where no corresponding `Fill` is identified on the destination chain, identify the valid `Fill` according to the following criteria:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each of the `Deposits` emitted within the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) where no corresponding `Fill` is identified on the destination chain within the Bundle Block Range, identify the valid `Fill` according to the following criteria:
```

1. Verify that the destination chain `FillStatus` for the `Deposit` `RelayData` is `Filled` as at the destination chain end block number for the proposal.

> 2. Resolve the corresponding `Fill` on the destination chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Resolve the corresponding `Fill` on the destination chain.
3. The `Fill` event occurred before the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) on the destination chain SpokePool.
```

Author: @nicholaspai Good catch!

#### Note
- No specific method is prescribed for resolving the fill on the destination chain. An `eth_getLogs` request can facilitate this, and if required, the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) could be narrowed by a binary search over the `FillStatus` field. This is left as an implementation decision.

#### Finding Expired Deposits
For the purpose of computing depositor refunds, each `Deposit` shall be considered expired by verifying that:
1. The `fillDeadline` timestamp elapsed within the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) on the destination SpokePool (i.e. the `fillDeadline` expired between the `block.timestamp` of the destination chain's bundle start and end block),
2. The `FillStatus` on the destination SpokePool is set to `Unfilled` or `SlowFillRequested`.

Note:
- Expired deposits shall be refunded to the `depositor` address on the origin SpokePool.

>   - If the `depositor` address is not valid on the `originChainId`, the deposit refund shall be discarded.

Reviewer 2: Just marking this as something we might be able to remove if the check PR goes in.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this for now. I suspect this check will be included.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Depositor refunds are to be issued as part of the relayer refund procedure.
- The `fillDeadline` timestamp shall be resolved to a block number on the destination chain in order to determine inclusion within the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges).

### Finding Slow Fill Requests
For the purpose of computing slow fills to be issued to recipients, each `Slow Fill Request` emitted within the [Bundle Block Range](#identifying-bundle-block-ranges) on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:
1. The `inputToken` and `outputToken` addresses are equivalent at the deposit `quoteTimestamp`,
2. The `fillDeadline` has not already elapsed relative to the `destinationChainId` bundle end block number,
3. The destination SpokePool `FillStatus` mapping for the relevant `RelayData` hash is `SlowFillRequested`,

> 4. The `Slow Fill Request` `RelayData` is matched by a corresponding `Deposit` event on the origin SpokePool,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The `Slow Fill Request` `RelayData` is matched by a corresponding `Deposit` event on the origin SpokePool that occurred within or before the the Bundle Block Range
```

5. The `originChainId` and `destinationChainId` are not Lite chains.

> 

Reviewer: @pxrl we actually don't need to do any historical queries to address 4 because if the `FillStatus` is `SlowFillRequested` then we know a slow fill request was sent. All that's left to do is to ensure that the request wasn't in the current bundle, so we would only need to check our event cache

> 

Author: @nicholaspai I've added some wording here: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/commit/065dc86b7a0b649b7cccfd53c17d269bc968cafb

I made some tweaks to your initial suggestion. lmk if it sounds OK.

### Computing Relayer Repayments & Depositor Refunds
For the purpose of computing relayer repayments, the following procedures are completed:
- Finding Valid Fills
- Finding Valid Pre-Fills
- Finding Expired Deposits

#### Note
- Depositor refunds are issued via the Relayer Repayment workflow.

### Validating Fills
Each of the `Fills` emitted within the `Bundle Block Range` on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:
1. The `Fill` event `FillType` field is not set to `SlowFill`, AND
2. The component `RelayData` maps exactly to a corresponding `Deposit` event emitted on the relevant `originChainId`, AND
3. The corresponding `Deposit` event occurred within or before the `Bundle Block Range` on the origin chain SpokePool.

#### Note
- If the `Deposit` event specifies `outputToken` 0x0 (i.e. the Zero Address), the equivalent SpokePool token on the destination chain shall be substituted in. For the purpose of determining `RelayData` equivalency, the updated/substituted `outputToken` shall be used in place of 0x0.
- `RelayData` equality can be determined by comparing the keccak256 hashes of two `RelayData` objects.

> - Fills of type `SlowFill` are valid, but are not relevant for computing relayer repayments.

Reviewer: For SlowFill-ed deposits where the fill is a pre-fill, we should ideally refund the depositor. Otherwise there is no way for the depositor to get funds back. We can essentially assume deposits sent after a slow fill are always duplicates, by definition for that slow fill to have been created

#### Note
- If the `Deposit` event specifies `outputToken` 0x0 (i.e. the Zero Address), the equivalent SpokePool token on the destination chain shall be substituted in. For the purpose of determining `RelayData` equivalency, the updated/substituted `outputToken` shall be used in place of 0x0.
- `RelayData` equality can be determined by comparing the keccak256 hashes of two `RelayData` objects.
- Fills of type `SlowFill` are valid, but are not relevant for computing relayer repayments.

### Validating Pre-fills
For each of the `Deposits` emitted within the `Bundle Block Range` where no corresponding `Fill` is identified on the destination chain within the `Bundle Block Range`, identify the valid `Fill` according to the following criteria:
1. Verify that the destination chain `FillStatus` for the `Deposit` `RelayData` is `Filled` as at the destination chain end block number for the proposal.
2. Resolve the corresponding `Fill` on the destination chain.
3. Verify that the `Fill` occurred prior to the current the `Bundle Block Range` on the destination chain SpokePool.

#### Note

> - No specific method is prescribed for resolving the fill on the destination chain. An `eth_getLogs` request can facilitate this, and if required, the `Bundle Block Range` could be narrowed by a binary search over the `FillStatus` field. This is left as an implementation decision.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- No specific method is prescribed for resolving the fill event on the destination chain. An `eth_getLogs` request can facilitate this, and if required, the `Bundle Block Range` could be narrowed by a binary search over the `FillStatus` field. This is left as an implementation decision.
```

### Finding Expired Deposits
For the purpose of computing depositor refunds, each `Deposit` shall be considered expired by verifying that:
1. The `fillDeadline` timestamp elapsed within the `Bundle Block Range` on the destination SpokePool (i.e. the `fillDeadline` expired between the `block.timestamp` of the destination chain's bundle start and end block),

> 2. The `FillStatus` on the destination SpokePool is set to `Unfilled` or `SlowFillRequested`.

Reviewer 2: Should we clarify what block the FillStatus should be queried at?

Author: ```suggestion
2. The `FillStatus` on the destination SpokePool is set to `Unfilled` or `SlowFillRequested` as at the end of the `Bundle Block Range`.
```

#### Note
- Expired deposits shall be refunded to the `depositor` address on the origin SpokePool.
  - If the `depositor` address is not valid on the `originChainId`, the deposit refund shall be discarded.
- Depositor refunds are to be issued as part of the relayer refund procedure.
- The `fillDeadline` timestamp shall be resolved to a block number on the destination chain in order to determine inclusion within the `Bundle Block Range`.

### Finding Slow Fill Requests
For the purpose of computing slow fills to be issued to recipients, each `Slow Fill Request` emitted within the `Bundle Block Range` on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:
1. The `fillDeadline` has not already elapsed relative to the `destinationChainId` bundle end block number,
2. The `inputToken` and `outputToken` addresses are equivalent at the deposit `quoteTimestamp`,

> 3. The destination SpokePool `FillStatus` mapping for the relevant `RelayData` hash is `SlowFillRequested`,

Reviewer 2: Same question, should we clarify what block this should be queried at?

Author: ```suggestion
3. The destination SpokePool `FillStatus` mapping for the relevant `RelayData` hash is `SlowFillRequested` as at the end of the `Bundle Block Range`,
```

4. The `Slow Fill Request` `RelayData` is matched by a corresponding `Deposit` event that occurred within or before the `Bundle Block Range` on the origin SpokePool,
5. The `originChainId` and `destinationChainId` are not Lite chains.

#### Note
- A `slow Fill Request` is made by supplying a complete copy of the relevant `RelayData` emitted by a `Deposit` event.
- The resulting set of validated `Slow Fill Requests` shall be included as SlowFills in the subsequent root bundle proposal.
- A `Slow Fill Request` may correspond to a `Deposit` from previous bundles.

### Finding Early Slow Fill Requests
When an early `Slow Fill Request` is implied, the `Slow Fill Request` shall be validated as follows:
1. The `fillDeadline` has not already elapsed relative to the `destinationChainId` bundle end block number,
2. The `inputToken` and `outputToken` addresses are equivalent at the deposit `quoteTimestamp`,

> 3. The `originChainId` and `destinationChainId` are not Lite chains.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Neither the`originChainId` nor the `destinationChainId` is a Lite chain.
```

The bundle LP fee for a `Bundle Block Range` on a SpokePool and token pair shall be determined by summing the applicable LP fees for each of the following validated events:
- `FilledRelay`.
- `FilledV3Relay`.

### Computing Relayer Repayments
For a validated `Deposit` event, the relayer repayment amount shall be computed as follows:
- `(inputAmount * (1 - realizedLpFeePct)) / 1e18`, where `realizedLpFeePct` is computed over the set of HubPool `l1Token`, `originChainId` and `repaymentChainId` at the HubPool block number corresponding to the relevant `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`.
- The applicable rate model shall be sourced from the AcrossConfigStore contract for the relevant `l1Token`.

The applied `repaymentChainId` shall be determined as follows:
- When the `originChainId` is a `Lite chain` as at the `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`: `originChainId`, ELSE
- When no `PoolRebalanceRoute` exists for the `repaymentToken` on the `Fill` `repaymentChainId`: `destinationChainId`, ELSE
- The `repaymentChainId` as specified in the `Fill`.

The applied `repayment address` shall be determined as follows:
- When the `Fill` `relayer` address is valid for the applied `repaymentChainId`: `relayer`, ELSE

> - The `Fill` `msg.sender` address.

Reviewer 3: The `msg.sender` is only defined for the destination chain ID and not necessarily a valid address on the repayment chain, I believe the best we can reasonably do is verify that the `msg.sender` is a bytes20 address and the chain is EVM, but this still leaves room to refund to some dead address if the filler is not an EOA.

Author: Agree. There's still opportunity for a relayer to lose funds if they specify a mismatched `repaymentChainId` and `relayer` repayment address. This is most obviously an issue on chains where it's not possible to deploy to the same contract address (i.e. zkSync family).

Examples of mis-specifying the repayment information include:
- Requesting non-origin repayment when the origin chain is a lite chain.
- Requesting repayment on a chain where `outputToken` has no corresponding mapping.
- Requesting repayment to a non-EVM address on an EVM chain, or an EVM address on a non-EVM chain.
- Any combination of the above.

One distinction that that sticks out to me is that specifying invalid repayment information does not actually constitute an invalid fill - especially since the repayment information is separate from the fill (RelayData) information. I'm in favour of considering the fill valid, but then skipping the relayer repayment in this case.

I think eventually it makes sense for relayers to maintain their own repayment lookup tables on chain, such that the proposer can query the repayment mappings correctly (i.e. the relayer specifies a repayment chain, and the proposer queries the correct repayment address from that chain).

#### Note
- No specific method is prescribed for resolving the `Fill` on the destination chain. An `eth_getLogs` request can facilitate this, and if required, the `Bundle Block Range` could be narrowed by a binary search over the `FillStatus` field. This is left as an implementation decision.

### Finding Expired Deposits
For the purpose of computing depositor refunds, each `Deposit` shall be considered expired by verifying that:
1. The `fillDeadline` timestamp elapsed within the `Bundle Block Range` on the destination SpokePool (i.e. the `fillDeadline` expired between the `block.timestamp` of the destination chain's bundle start and end block),
2. The `FillStatus` on the destination SpokePool is set to `Unfilled` or `SlowFillRequested` as at the end of the `Bundle Block Range`.

#### Note
- Expired deposits shall be refunded to the `depositor` address on the origin SpokePool.
- Depositor refunds are to be issued as part of the relayer refund procedure.
- The `fillDeadline` timestamp shall be resolved to a block number on the destination chain in order to determine inclusion within the `Bundle Block Range`.

> ### Finding Unfillable Deposits

Reviewer: Would a better name be Duplicate Slow Filled Deposits ?

For the purpose of computing depositor refunds, each duplicate `Deposit` shall be considered unfillable by verifying that:
1. The `Deposit` is identical with another `Deposit`.

> 2. The destination chain `FillStatus` for the `Deposit` is `Filled`.

Reviewer: Do you mean to say that the FillStatus is `Filled` at the end of the bundle block range that contains the `Deposit`?  Just wondering when you should determine the `FillStatus`

3. The destination chain `Fill` `FillType` was `SlowFill`.

> 4. The destination chain `Fill` occurred within the current `BundleBlockRange`.

Reviewer: Do all these conditions have to happen? If so we should probably explicitly state that above the list or adding an AND after each point

#### Note
- `Deposits` are considered identical when their `RelayData` matches.
- `Deposits` are considered duplicate when they are emitted after their initial identical instance.

### Finding Slow Fill Requests
For the purpose of computing slow fills to be issued to recipients, each `Slow Fill Request` emitted within the `Bundle Block Range` on a destination SpokePool shall be considered valid by verifying that:

> 1. The `fillDeadline` has not already elapsed relative to the `destinationChainId` bundle end block number,

Reviewer 2: Is the bundle inclusive of the end block? If so, this is probably a bit clearer.

```suggestion
1. The `fillDeadline` is greater than `destinationChainId` bundle end block's `block.timestamp`,
```

Reviewer: The bundle is inclusive of the end block

2. The `inputToken` and `outputToken` addresses are equivalent at the deposit `quoteTimestamp`,

> 3. The destination SpokePool `FillStatus` mapping for the relevant `RelayData` hash is `SlowFillRequested` as at the end of the `Bundle Block Range`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The destination SpokePool `FillStatus` mapping for the relevant `RelayData` hash is `SlowFillRequested` at the end of the `Bundle Block Range`,
```

#### Note
- An early `Slow Fill Request` is implied where a `Deposit` emitted within the current `Bundle Block Range` has a `FillStatus` of `SlowFillRequested` as at the end of the current `Bundle Block Range` on the destination chain, but where no `Slow Fill Request` is identified within the current `Bundle Block Range`. This may occur where the `Slow Fill Request` was submitted prior to the current bundle.

### Computing LP Fees
Each valid `Fill` is subject to an LP fee. The procedure for computing LP fees is as defined in [UMIP-136 Add IS_RELAY_VALID as a supported price identifier](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/blob/7b1a046098d3e2583abd0372c5e9c6003b46ad92/UMIPs/umip-136.md), with the following amendments:
- The AcrossConfigStore contract shall be used to identify the correct rate model, instead of a `RateModelStore` contract.
- The `HubPool` `liquidityUtilizationCurrent()` and `liquidityUtilizationPostRelay()` functions shall be used instead of the `BridgePool` variant.
- The event `inputToken` shall be mapped from the SpokePool address to a HubPool `l1Token` address by following the matching procedure outlined above.

> - The LP fee is computed between the `originChainId` specified by the `Deposit` and `repaymentChainId` specified by the relayer, where the `relayExecutionInfo.FillType != SlowFill` and the Fill `destinationChainId` otherwise.

Reviewer: We actually collect LP fees on each SlowFill's execution, not sure if that was a mistake from the previous version but we should note that. SlowFill's pay out `inputAmount - lpFee` to the recipient and when and if the the SlowFill gets executed, the LP fee gets accumulated to the `bundleLpFees` entry in the `PoolRebalanceRoot`

### Computing Bundle LP Fees
The bundle LP fee for a target block range on a SpokePool and token pair shall be determined by summing the applicable LP fees for each of the following validated events:
- `FilledRelay`.
- `FilledV3Relay`.

### Computing Relayer Repayments
For a validated `Deposit` event, the relayer repayment amount shall be computed as follows:
- `(inputAmount * (1 - realizedLpFeePct)) / 1e18`, where `realizedLpFeePct` is computed over the set of HubPool `l1Token`, `originChainId` and `repaymentChainId` at the HubPool block number corresponding to the relevant `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`.
- The applicable rate model shall be sourced from the AcrossConfigStore contract for the relevant `l1Token`.
- Deposits where the `originChainId` is a "Lite" chain in the AcrossConfigStore as of the `quoteTimestamp` shall always be repaid on the deposit's origin chain. This means the protocol overrides the relayer's requested `repaymentChainId` with the `originChainId` instead.

The recipient of relayer repayments shall be the `Fill` `relayer` address. If the `relayer` address is invalid for the respective `repaymentChainId`, the proposer shall:

> - Issue the refund on the `destinationChainId` instead of the `repaymentChainId`, AND

Reviewer: What if the destination chain is a lite chain?

Author: I think it's OK when the destination chain is a lite chain (we permit this currently), but it's not OK when the origin chain is a lite chain (good catch). So the logic needs to be tightened up, such that this has a lower precedence than the lite chain constraints.

Author: @nicholaspai Updated here to be more explicit about the precedence of the applied `repaymentChainId` and reverting to a fallback repayment address in case of an invalid relayer-specified address for the applied `repaymentChainId`:
https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/611/commits/a95d43744eaff6c39302c4f4c7d674ba63e50443

wdyt?

Reviewer: left one comment https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/611/commits/a95d43744eaff6c39302c4f4c7d674ba63e50443#r1923960561

For a validated `Deposit` event, the relayer repayment amount shall be computed as follows:
- `(inputAmount * (1 - realizedLpFeePct)) / 1e18`, where `realizedLpFeePct` is computed over the set of HubPool `l1Token`, `originChainId` and `repaymentChainId` at the HubPool block number corresponding to the relevant `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`.
- The applicable rate model shall be sourced from the AcrossConfigStore contract for the relevant `l1Token`.

The applied `repaymentChainId` shall be determined as follows:

> - When the `originChainId` is a `Lite chain` as at the `Deposit` `quoteTimestamp`: `originChainId`, ELSE:

Reviewer: This creates an issue where we don't know a valid address for the filler on the origin chain, the same way we can always know the msg.sender on the destination chain as the filler

Author: True...there's no guarantee that the fill `relayer` or `msg.sender` on the destination chain are correct on the origin chain. The worst case would be a lite chain deposit being filled on a non-evm chain, where the repayment chain was set as the destination chain and the relayer address was set assuming a non-evm chain.

In this case I don't see what can be done other than to drop the repayment entirely. wdyt?

Author: The number of edge cases for this to go wrong are increasing with the ability for relayers to specify their own repayment addresses. I kinda wonder if we should ultimately provide something like a contract where relayers can specify a default repayment addresses for each chain; this would be used in case of the proposer being unable to resolve a valid address.

Author: @nicholaspai @mrice32 I've added a description of how to handle deposit refunds and relayer repayments when the receiving address is invalid for the target chain: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/commit/cab40f82e28a877634037c473fc9015c60f782bd

> The V3 rules defined in this UMIP will apply beginning when the VERSION field in the ConfigStore is updated to 3 or higher. The ability for Across bundles to support V2 events may cease in a future VERSION increment.

Author: Question for the brains trust - do we want to retain the description of the `Across v2 -> v3 Transition`? The migration occurred almost 12 months ago so it's only here for historical interest. We don't really have any formal versioning for `UMIP-179` though, so it's unclear for me whether it's moreso a living document reflecting the current protocol spec, or a record of the protocol evolution.

Reviewer: I think we can remove it since the git history will have the migration details if we want to refer back to it

Author: Removed here: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/611/commits/f74a4ab60c8d6099cf09861fe8fa6981ea055cd7

The V3 rules defined in this UMIP will apply beginning when the VERSION field in the ConfigStore is updated to 3 or higher. The ability for Across bundles to support V2 events may cease in a future VERSION increment.

> XXX Identify a transition point for the pending upgrade. This is likely to be handled via a `VERSION` bump.

Reviewer: Yep agreed
